Please see the answers highlighted below.

Thanks

Have a wonderful weekend.

From: Cynthia Rhymer [mailto:crhymer@WestWindsorTwp.com]
Sent: Friday, June 22, 2018 4:26 PM
To: Aderhold, David
Cc: Marlena Schmid
Subject: Shares Services Agreement btwn Twp of West Windsor and WW-Plainsboro Bd of Ed - Class III
Importance: High

Hi Dr. Aderhold,

Marlena has reviewed the attached Share Services Agreement with the following changes:

Pages 3-4

Section IV(G)(b).  Duties of SLEO III - can, may - which word should be used "can" or "may"?  Please advise - May...it will be changed

Page 4

Section IV(K) - reads: "...may attend periodic briefings and meetings...All efforts will be made to coordinate this training" - should this sentence refer to "attending briefings and meetings or activities" instead of "coordinate this training"?  In IV(J) "complete all training" is already mentioned.  Please advise. - my recommendation is to leave as is...it is to distinguish between trainings and police briefings...different police departments handle terminology differently....this is to honor both WW and Plainsboro PD

Page 4

Section IV(N) - reads:  "...in accordance with the Uniform Memorandum of Agreement."  Is this the same document as referenced in Section V(K) Page 5 - "...Uniform State Memorandum of Agreement between Education and Law Enforcement Officials, Departmental Standard Operating Procedures and General Orders"?  Please advise. - yes...this is the same document.  We are required to have a MOA (Memorandum of Agreement with the Police Department) The document can be found on our website at http://west-windsor-plainsboro.k12.nj.us/about_us/safe_schools/memorandums_of_agreement


Page 6

Sections VIII(F) & (G) -  fix left margin alignment. Received

Page 7-8

Section VIII(I) - is blank. Yes...that should be deleted

Please feel free to contact us if you have any questions.

Thanks.

Cynthia Rhymer
Assistant to Marlena Schmid
Business Administrator
West Windsor Township

Please be advised that the Township of West Windsor is subject to the New Jersey Open Public Records Act. As such, any email sent or received by the Township may be subject to a records request.
  
