Good Morning,

I am writing to confirm tomorrow's meeting to review the resolution and agreement to implement Class III Police Officers in WWP schools for Fall 2018.  The goal of the meeting is to solidify the timeline, language of the agreement and cost parameters.  (Clearly this will need to be reviewed by all members of council, mayors and the Board of Education).

I ask that everyone come forward tomorrow with solutions to make this happen.

A majority of the Board of Education is supportive with the implementation.  As such I am authorized to solidify the process.  I ask that everyone come ready to work to a solution for implementation of Class III Police Officers in our schools.

As such, WWP will be bringing out Board Attorney to the meeting to assist in facilitating.  I ask the townships to reconsider and bring representation to assist in this process.

I am out today (chaperoning my Kindergartner's field trip).  I look forward to our 10:30 meeting tomorrow at the Board of Education Office.

Sincerely,

Dave

From: Marlena Schmid [mailto:mschmid@westwindsortwp.com]
Sent: Thursday, May 31, 2018 10:32 AM
To: Aderhold, David; Cancro, Anthony
Cc: Armour, Guy; Rob Garofalo; Tavener, Fred; Mark Lee (Police); Russo, Christopher; Joanne Louth; Hemant Marathe
Subject: RE: Tuesday, June 5th

Dave:

I concur with Anthony approach and will work this through the Township Attorney after our meeting.

Thank you.
Marlena

From: Aderhold, David [mailto:David.Aderhold@ww-p.org]
Sent: Wednesday, May 30, 2018 8:24 PM
To: Cancro, Anthony
Cc: Armour, Guy; Rob Garofalo; Tavener, Fred; Mark Lee (Police); Russo, Christopher; Marlena Schmid
Subject: Re: Tuesday, June 5th

My opinion is it will be advantageous to have legal reps present on both side to assist in facilitating this process

Time is of the essence and we need to move this forward.

I will send the draft later when I get to my computer


Sent from my iPhone

On May 30, 2018, at 7:42 PM, Cancro, Anthony <acancro@plainsboronj.com<mailto:acancro@plainsboronj.com>> wrote:

Dave - that time and date works for me.   Can you please send Marlena and I the draft contracts to review prior to the mtg so we have the ability to converse at the 6/5 mtg.

I would prefer we make our way through the policy and financial matters first, then have the district attorney discuss the key legal issues at the mtg, and let Marlena and I work it through our attorney after this mtg.  This is my opinion, if Marlena feels differently, she can say so.

Thanks, look forward to the mtg.

Anthony

From: Aderhold, David [mailto:David.Aderhold@ww-p.org]
Sent: Wednesday, May 30, 2018 2:39 PM
To: Armour, Guy; 'Robert Garofalo'; Tavener, Fred; Mark Lee; Russo, Christopher; Cancro, Anthony; 'Marlena Schmid'
Subject: Tuesday, June 5th

Good Afternoon,

I would like to set up our next opportunity to discuss the implementation and process for proceeding with Class III Police Officers.  In speaking with Chief Garofalo and Chief Armour we have tentatively held Tuesday, June 5th from 10:30 - 12:30 for our next discussion.

Further, I believe we would be best suited to have both the township attorney (which I believe is the same firm) and the district attorney (Comegno Law Group) attend to review the contract and discuss the logistics of the next steps.  Rob, Guy, and I have shared draft contracts to assist in our discussion with the larger group.

I have reserved C110/C111 at the Board of Education Offices for the meeting.

It is probably also a good idea to have Greg and Joanne join us.  I didn't have their email addresses readily available.

Please let me know if you are able to join us.

Sincerely,

Dave

David M. Aderhold
Superintendent of Schools
West Windsor - Plainsboro Regional School District
(609)716-5000 x5040

Please be advised that the Township of West Windsor is subject to the New Jersey Open Public Records Act. As such, any email sent or received by the Township may be subject to a records request.

  
