No it is not.  This is only from Ms. Bahree.

Sharon L. Young
Township Clerk
West Windsor Township
609-799-2400 ext. 220

"Please be advised that the Township of West Windsor is subject to the New Jersey Open Public Records Act.  As such, any email sent or received by the Township may be subject to a records request. "


From: Aderhold, David [mailto:David.Aderhold@ww-p.org]
Sent: Wednesday, June 20, 2018 2:12 PM
To: Sharon Young
Cc: Gay Huber; Alison Miller; Hemant Marathe
Subject: RE: Request for Attendance at Council Meeting to Discuss Class III Officers

Sharon,

Is this a comprehensive list of questions from the WW Township Council?

Thanks,

Dave

From: Sharon Young [mailto:Syoung@WestWindsorTwp.com]
Sent: Wednesday, June 20, 2018 2:00 PM
To: Aderhold, David
Cc: Gay Huber; Alison Miller
Subject: FW: Request for Attendance at Council Meeting to Discuss Class III Officers

Questions for Monday's attendance at the WWT Council Meeting.

Sharon L. Young
Township Clerk
West Windsor Township
609-799-2400 ext. 220

"Please be advised that the Township of West Windsor is subject to the New Jersey Open Public Records Act.  As such, any email sent or received by the Township may be subject to a records request. "


From: Jyotika Bahree
Sent: Friday, June 15, 2018 8:34 AM
To: Sharon Young
Subject: RE: Request for Attendance at Council Meeting to Discuss Class III Officers

Hi Sharon,

Here are my questions for Dr. Aderhold -


1.       Can there be a common recruitment task force for the two townships - WW and Plainsboro - composed of officers from both towns for the purposes of achieving consistency in the quality of hired officers for schools in both towns?

2.       Will the Class III SRO double up as "eyes on the door" or will the school district continue that program the way its run currently?

3.       Can you describe a typical day of the SRO as they go about fulfilling their many and challenging responsibilities as educators, informal counselors and community police officers in the schools? And if they are inside a class somewhere in our very large schools, what does it mean for response times if there were to be an incident?

4.       Would a 2-day training program be comprehensive enough to cover all aspects of their job responsibilities? And would they be required to undergo training on a regular basis so they can perform their jobs effectively?

Thank you!

Jyotika

  
