Good Afternoon,

Thank you for the opportunity to present to the West Windsor Township Council on Monday evening.  Lt. Lee and I look forward to the opportunity to discuss the questions provided.

In an attempt to honor everyone's time on Monday evening, I have created a series of answers to most of the questions provided.  As many questions referenced management and administrative oversight matters, I thought it best to provide responses in advance.  I trust the attached answers will provide clarity to the questions as answered.  Please let me know if additional information is needed.

Further, there were three questions that I believe are better answered during the presentation.

Outline of Presentation for Monday:


1.   Overview of Process and Recommendation

a.       Discuss the "WHY"

b.      SLEO III vs. SRO vs. Private Security

c.       Memorandum of Agreement with Law Enforcement

d.      Goals and Objectives

e.       District Security

f.       Not Compromising Our Standards



2.   Hiring



3.   Training

a.       Field Training Officers

b.      Active Shooter, De-Escalation, Use of Force, Blood Borne Pathogens, De-fib, Narcan, CPR, Bias, Special Needs Populations, First Aid

c.       SRO



4.   Responsibilities

a.       Day to Day



5.   Next Steps

Additionally, I have provided a copy of the Shared Service Agreement that will be voted upon by the Board of Education on Tuesday evening.  Lastly, I have provide a copy of the budget that is inclusive of the cost of officers, training, management/oversight, uniforms, and equipment.

My thanks and appreciation for your time and attention to the safety and security of our students and staff.

Sincerely,

Dave

David M. Aderhold, Ed.D.
Superintendent of Schools
West Windsor - Plainsboro Regional School District
(609)716-5000 x5040

Please be advised that the Township of West Windsor is subject to the New Jersey Open Public Records Act. As such, any email sent or received by the Township may be subject to a records request.
