Hi Dave:

I'm sharing Council Member Hamilton's questions concerning insurance indemnification language in the Shared Services Agreement  and the response (below) we received from the Fund Administrator, Barbara Murphy, for the Mid-Jersey Joint Insurance Fund which insurers the Township for all lines of coverage

The Mayor and I would like to suggest that you ask your insurer to prepare a response to her questions as well.  The answer below Council Member Hamilton received resulted in her submitting  additional questions that I will provide you under separate e-mail.  Her other questions have been sent to Ms. Murphy to respond to which I will copy you on the response when I receive it.

Thanks,
Marlena


-----Original Message-----
From: Barbara Murphy [mailto:BMurphy@rlminc.org] 
Sent: Thursday, June 28, 2018 11:53 AM
To: Cynthia Rhymer
Cc: Marlena Schmid
Subject: Followup to the Shared Services Agreement with the Schools

Cynthia,

The limitations and exclusions referenced are contained in the Fund's casualty policy that is issued to all fund members.  West Windsor's current liability limit is $7,000,000.  The insurance provisions in any agreement and the indemnification provision are two separate items.  

The indemnification provision should be reviewed by the Twp. attorney and agreed upon by all parties. The intent of the cross indemnification is for the school to pay when and if their acts and/or omissions cause a loss and for the Twp. to pay when and if their acts and/or omissions cause a loss.  There should not be a duplication of payment.  If both parties contribute to a loss, both would pay their proportionate share.

Please keep in mind while the Fund's policy is broadly written, at times there maybe items that cannot be covered by insurance, for example injunctive relief.

Regards,
Barbara
  



From: Ayesha Hamilton
Sent: Thursday, June 28, 2018 8:28 AM
To: Hemant Marathe
Cc: MAYOR'SOFFICE; Marlena Schmid; Council; Gay Huber
Subject: Re: Followup to the Shared Services Agreement with the Schools

Thank you.  What are the limitations and exclusions referenced in Barbara's email?  Can you modify the indemnification language to reflect exclusions for anything not covered by the JIF policy. That way the tax payers are not being hit for the same bill twice, once when the School Board pays the claim and another time when we indemnify the SB for the acts of our employee that are outside the coverage limits.
Ayesha K Hamilton
Councilwoman, West Windsor Township
Tel. (215)738-0222

The information contained in this email may be confidential and/or legally privileged.  It has been sent for the sole use of the intended recipient(s).  If the reader of this message is not the intended recipient, you are hereby notified that the unauthorized review, use, disclosure, dissemination, distribution or copying of this communication, or any of its contents, is strictly prohibited.  If you have received this communication in error, please reply to the sender and destroy it immediately.  Please consider the environment before printing this email. Thank you.

On Jun 27, 2018, at 9:19 PM, Hemant Marathe <hmarathe@WestWindsorTwp.com<mailto:hmarathe@WestWindsorTwp.com>> wrote:
Ayesha,

Below is the answer to your question about legal ramifications of the agreement. Please let me know if this answers your question or you need further clarification/explanation?

Thanks

Hemant


From: Barbara Murphy [mailto:BMurphy@rlminc.org]
Sent: Wednesday, June 27, 2018 1:50 PM
To: Marlena Schmid
Subject: Follow up to the Shared Services Agreement with the Schools

Marlena,

With respects to the insurance and indemnification language contained in this agreement, the Fund's coverage documents would provide for indemnification of liability assumed via a mutual aid agreement (including indemnification for defense costs). This coverage is pursuant to the terms, conditions, limitations, and exclusions of the JIF Casualty Insurance Policy. Costs outside of the coverage documents would not be provided through the Fund.  The Title 59 (Tort Claims Act) protections and limitations would be afforded in the same manner regardless of the liability assumed in any agreement.

The intention of the cross-indemnification language in the agreement is to have each party obligate itself to compensate the other party for harm or loss to avoid having both parties paying the same claim twice.

Regards,

Barbara



________________________________________
From: Ayesha Hamilton
Sent: Tuesday, June 26, 2018 3:37 PM
To: MAYOR'SOFFICE; Marlena Schmid; Council; Gay Huber
Cc: Ayesha Hamilton
Subject: Followup to the Shared Services Agreement with the Schools

All:

I would like written confirmation from the Mayor and/or Marlena that the JIF is comfortable with the indemnity language contained in the Shared Services Agreement and that they will not disclaim coverage if indemnity is sought.  If indemnification is outside the coverage limits, please confirm for me what source will be used to cover the indemnification.

The reason this is a concern is because there may be protections and limitations to suit provided by the NJ Tort Claims Act which may be affected by your indemnification language.

Further, since we are thinking of this all as "one pocket", my concern is that our tax payers are paying the claim sought for indemnification through the school taxes and then again through the township taxes when the Town indemnifies the school.  When we are looking at the "same pocket" of funds, i.e. the tax payer, then the indemnification clause means that they are essentially paying on the same claim twice.

Thank you.  I look forward to your prompt response.

Very truly yours,

Ayesha Krishnan Hamilton
Council Member
West Windsor Township
271 Clarksville Road
West Windsor, New Jersey 08550
Phone:  (609) 945-7310
Ahamilton@westwindsortwp.com<mailto:Ahamilton@westwindsortwp.com>
Please be advised that the Township of West Windsor is subject to the New Jersey Open Public Records Act (OPRA).  As such, any email sent or received by the Township may be subject to a records request and public disclosure.  Please destroy this email if it has been sent to you in error.

Please be advised that the Township of West Windsor is subject to the New Jersey Open Public Records Act. As such, any email sent or received by the Township may be subject to a records request.

Please be advised that the Township of West Windsor is subject to the New Jersey Open Public Records Act.  As such, any email sent or received by the Township may be subject to a records request.
